.TH "MKEOT" "1" "25 Jan 2010" "1.x" "EOT UTILITIES"
.SH NAME
mkeot \- generate Embedded OpenType
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkeot
.I font-file
.RI "[\| " URL " [\| " URL " ... \|] \|] > " EOT-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B mkeot
command writes an EOT (Embedded OpenType) file on standard output that
contains the given font file (OpenType or TrueType) and the given
URLs.
.LP
.B mkeot
handles TrueType files, OpenType files with TrueType outlines, and
OpenType files with Postscript outlines. (Technically: all files with
the "sfnt" format.) However, Microsoft's Web browser
.I Internet Explorer
(version 8) cannot handle Postscript outlines. To use EOT files with
that browser, OpenType files with Postscript outlines must be
converted to TrueType files first. Several prgrams are able to do
that, including the free
.BR fontforge "."
.LP
The URLs that are added to the EOT file list the Web pages on which
the EOT font may be used. They act as prefixes, which means that,
e.g., a URL such as http://example.org/foo enables a font not only for
that precise page, but also for http://example.org/foo2 or
http://example.org/foo/bar or any other pages whose URL starts with
the prefix.
.LP
The EOT specification allows EOT files without any URLs, but is not
clear on the meaning of such a file. In practice, at least in
Microsoft's Internet Explorer (version 8), an empty list of URLs means
the font applies to no Web page at all.
.LP
EOT font are typically used for Web pages. To that end, a link (URL)
to the EOT file must appear in the Web page's style sheet. A typical
rule in CSS looks like this:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
@font-face {
  font-family: My Fancy Font;
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: normal;
  src: url(http://example.org/fonts/fancy-roman.eot);
}
body {
  font-family: My Fancy Font, serif;
}
.in -4
.fi
.sp
This downloads the EOT file from the given URL and declares it to be a
font of normal weight and roman style with the family name "My Fancy
Font." That font can then be used in style rules, such as, in this
example, to set the font of body text. See the "CSS Fonts Module level
3" for details on CSS.
.LP
TrueType files typically have the extension
.BR .ttf ","
OpenType files typically have the extension
.B .otf
and EOT files typically end in
.BR .eot "."
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR eotinfo (1),
.BR fontforge (1),
.B WEFT
(http://www.microsoft.com/typography/web/embedding/weft3/default.htm),
.B EOT
(http://www.w3.org/Submission/2008/01/)
.B CSS Fonts Module level 3
(see http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/)
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B mkeot
does not apply the optional MicroType Express compression.
.LP
.B mkeot
may fail with fonts that have non-ASCII characters in their names.
.LP
.B mkeot
cannot handle fonts that use (only) language tags instead of
traditional Microsoft/Apple language numbers in their names table. 
(Luckily, this feature of OpenType version 1.6 appears to be little
used.)
.LP
.B mkeot
does not subset the font, unlike Microsoft's graphical WEFT tool. To
make a EOT file with a reduced set of glyphs, you must first create a
subsetted TrueType font with a font editor.
